---
title: "What is a Chatbot? 10 Benefits of Chatbots for Enhanced Customer Service"
description: "Chatbots help businesses automate their customer service motion and reduce time to ticket resolution. Learn about chatbots and how to implement them in this blog."
pubDate: "2023-08-03T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2025-04-23T05:34:35.000Z"
image: "/images/blog/67fe0a8af9769ecc0f58e306_659547dedfed07c2c216c358_Screenshot-202024-01-03-20at-205.10.59-20PM.png"
thumbnail: "/images/blog/67fe0a8af9769ecc0f58e30f_659547dedfed07c2c216c358_Screenshot-202024-01-03-20at-205.10.59-20PM.png"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: false
noindex: false
categories: ["chatbots"]
seoTitle: "What is a Chatbot? 10 Benefits of Chatbots for Enhanced Customer Service | Plivo CX Blog"
webflowItemId: "67fe0a8af9769ecc0f58e345"
---
<p>Chatbots have been making waves in the customer service industry, providing a range of advantages that can enhance the customer experience by <a href="https://www.contacto.com/blog/reduce-customer-friction/" target="_blank">reducing customer friction</a>, increasing revenue, and alleviating pressure on human agents.</p><p>From providing 24/7 availability to offering personalized recommendations, chatbots have the potential to revolutionize the way businesses interact with their customers.</p><h2><strong>What is a Chatbot?</strong> </h2><p>Put simply, a chatbot is a computer program designed to quickly respond to and assist customers with their questions. Whenever a customer initiates contact through a communication channel, a chatbot will attempt to identify and resolve the customer’s issue by offering solutions to common problems.</p><p>Modern chatbots like Contacto’s can even be configured to trigger customized workflows dynamically based on customer responses, enhancing your business’ ability to gather relevant information from your customers before they connect with an agent.</p><h2>Benefits of Chatbots</h2><p>We’ve compiled 10 benefits of chatbots, and tips for how you can use automation to enhance the customer service experience, while also alleviating pressure on customer service agents, <a href="https://www.contacto.com/blog/increase-revenue-improve-agent-satisfaction/" target="_blank">increasing revenue</a>, and creating repeat business:</p><ol><li><strong>24/7 Availability:</strong> Chatbots can provide 24/7 availability to customers, which is not always possible with human agents. This means customers can receive immediate assistance, regardless of the time of day or night. This can increase customer satisfaction and reduce the likelihood of negative reviews or customer churn due to unaddressed concerns.<br></li><li><strong>Quick Response Times:</strong> Chatbots are capable of responding to customer inquiries in seconds, providing instant answers and minimizing the waiting time for customers. This can reduce frustration and increase overall customer satisfaction, while also freeing up customer service agents to handle more complex issues.<br></li><li><strong>Cost-Effective:</strong> Chatbots can help companies save on labor costs, as they can handle a large volume of customer inquiries simultaneously. This can allow companies to allocate their resources more efficiently and effectively, while also reducing the need to hire additional staff to handle customer service inquiries.<br></li><li><strong>Reduced Pressure on Human Agents:</strong> Chatbots can handle routine inquiries, allowing human agents to focus on more complex issues. This can reduce burnout and turnover among customer service agents, while also increasing the likelihood of positive customer interactions.<br></li><li><strong>Improved Context for Issue Resolution:</strong> Chatbots can gather information from customers and provide context to customer service agents before the customer is transferred to a human agent. This can help agents provide more efficient and effective solutions, as they will have a better understanding of the customer’s issue before the interaction begins.<br></li><li><strong>Increased Revenue:</strong> Chatbots can increase customer engagement by providing answers to questions that prospective customers may have while evaluating your product. This can increase revenue and customer loyalty, while also improving the overall customer experience.<br></li><li><strong>Multilingual Support:</strong> Chatbots can provide support in multiple languages, making it easier for companies to expand into international markets. This can increase customer satisfaction and reduce language barriers for customers.<br></li><li><strong>Consistent and Accurate Responses:</strong> Chatbots can provide consistent and accurate responses to customer inquiries, reducing the likelihood of miscommunications or misunderstandings. This can increase customer confidence in the company and its products or services.<br></li><li><strong>Improved Data Collection:</strong> Chatbots can gather customer data and provide insights into customer behavior, preferences, and pain points. This can help companies improve their products or services, as well as their overall customer service strategy.<br></li><li><strong>Creating Repeat Business:</strong> A positive customer service experience, facilitated in part by chatbots, can create repeat business and increase customer loyalty. Customers who have had a positive interaction with a chatbot are more likely to return to a company for future purchases or services.</li></ol><p>So we ask the question again: what is a chatbot? A chatbot is a useful self-service tool that is evolving the modern customer service experience by providing 24/7 availability, reducing the pressure on your human agents, and decreasing the time to ticket resolution for your customers. </p><h2>The Importance of Self-Service in Customer Support</h2><p>In our recent <a href="https://www.contacto.com/blog/modern-state-customer-support">Leadership Talk on the Modern State of Customer Support</a>, <a href="https://www.plivo.com/">Plivo’s</a> head of support Renu Yadav highlighted the importance of self-service tools:</p><p>“Self-service options are a great way to reduce the number of queries coming to support agents and allow them to focus on more complex problems. I also think that it is important to build an extensive FAQ section so that customers can easily find answers to common questions.</p><p>I also think that chatbots and AI can be valuable tools for customer support. They can provide instant, 24/7 support for simple inquiries or issues, and they can also gather initial information before escalating more complex issues to human agents.”</p><h2>How PlivoCX’s Chatbot can automate your customer service</h2><p><a href="https://new.contacto.com/announcements/chatbot-for-web-and-mobile">PlivoCX’s modern chatbot</a> leverages advanced automation technology to enhance the customer service experience for businesses of all sizes. With features like 24/7 availability, quick response times, and multilingual support, Contacto’s chatbot is an excellent example of the potential that this technology can bring to your business.</p><p>By embracing chatbot technology in your contact center, companies can provide better customer service, reduce costs, and increase revenue, all while freeing up their human agents to focus on more complex tasks.</p><p>With the rapid advancements in AI technology, chatbots are only going to become more sophisticated and capable of handling even more tasks, making them an essential tool for any modern business looking to stay ahead of the competition.</p><p>So why wait? <a href="https://www.plivo.com/cx/service/request-demo" target="_blank">Start exploring the benefits of chatbots today</a> and see how they can revolutionize your customer service experience.</p>
