---
title: "3 Ways to Improve Call Quality During Conference Calls"
description: "Plivo's SMS API and Voice API enables businesses to communicate with their customers at global scale. Sign up for free now."
pubDate: "2019-05-31T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2025-05-19T11:41:46.000Z"
image: "/images/blog/658290300a25b014d5815b74_things-to-improved-call-quality-during-conference-calls.png"
thumbnail: "/images/blog/658290300a25b014d5815b74_things-to-improved-call-quality-during-conference-calls.png"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: true
noindex: true
categories: ["voice-api", "conferencing"]
seoTitle: "3 Ways to Improve Call Quality During Conference Calls"
webflowItemId: "658290ba6b32672cb2a49771"
---
<p>The global collaboration economy demands that voice conferencing providers seamlessly connect people for a reliable communication experience. Here are three ways Plivo optimizes our platform to provide clear, reliable conference calling.</p><p><strong>1. Uniform customer experience with global coverage</strong></p><p>When your customers get on a conference call, you want to provide them a hassle-free experience with easy connections and clear conversation quality. Plivo’s conference solution fits your needs at every stage:</p><ul><li><strong>Coverage:</strong> We have a comprehensive network of Tier 1 carriers in more than 190 countries with voice and SMS to more than 1,600 global carrier networks. </li><li><strong>Call quality:</strong> In <a href="https://www.plivo.com/blog/">another post</a>, we covered the steps we’ve taken to build our infrastructure with globally located data centers and failover mechanisms. Our optimized global routing minimizes latency, jitter, and packet loss.</li><li><strong>Proactive testing:</strong> &nbsp;With the help of quality-based routing and distributed test nodes, we continuously test and improve call quality.</li><li><strong>Redundancy:</strong> We maintain redundancy and auto-failovers across all layers of our carrier integration system. This setup protects our customers from downstream risks such as carrier outages and network failures.</li><li><strong>Direct connections with SLAs:</strong> Because we maintain premium direct routes in more than 190 countries, we guarantee timely delivery to any mobile network in the world. We don’t use aggregators — we work directly with all of the major telecom operators in every region, which helps us deliver better quality and resolve issues rapidly. &nbsp;</li></ul><p><strong>2. An architecture that improves call quality and minimizes call latency</strong></p><p>We have seven points of presence (PoP) locations spread across five continents — in California, Virginia, Frankfurt, São Paulo, Mumbai, Singapore, and Sydney. We established these PoPs to minimize latency and optimize global routing.</p><p><strong>3. Capabilities to derive analytical insights</strong></p><p>In communications, network flaws like packet loss, jitter, and latency can reduce call quality. Having data about your network traffic is the only way to monitor performance to inform real-time decisions.</p><p>Plivo’s analytics let you track metrics such as latency, jitter, packet loss, and Mean Opinion Score (MOS), which in turn lets you assess call quality, enables faster debugging of issues, and provides real-time detection of network problems.</p><p>Plivo can provide feedback after every conference call to help you and your customers troubleshoot issues. Imagine being able to debug or troubleshoot and determine whether poor call quality was due to a congested network connection or a bad headset.</p><p><strong>One more thing</strong></p><p>Our goal at Plivo is to simplify business communications. Features like direct relationships with carriers, optimized PoP infrastructure, and real-time analytics are just a few of the ways we help make it super simple for you to integrate voice communications into your applications. We also understand that you may have questions or need support, so we offer all of our customers round-the-clock support at no extra cost.</p><p><a href="https://www.plivo.com/contact/sales/">Connect with us</a> and let us answer any questions you have.<br></p><p></p>
