---
title: "How to Write a Bank IVR Menu"
description: "Tips on how to write a banking IVR menu. Read more about IVR phone banking services and best practices at Plivo."
pubDate: "2023-07-17T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2024-07-08T08:01:37.000Z"
image: "/images/blog/657d43cb728c9a6088f6d50c_blog_bank_IVR_menu.svg"
thumbnail: "/images/blog/657d43cb728c9a6088f6d50c_blog_bank_IVR_menu.svg"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: true
noindex: false
categories: ["voice-api"]
seoTitle: "How to Write a Bank IVR Menu | Plivo"
webflowItemId: "657d444f89d3663accd1546d"
---
<p>If you’ve ever made a call and heard “For English, press or say 1,” you’ve encountered an interactive voice response system. IVR allows callers to access information by speaking a word (thus the “voice” part of the name) or pressing a key on a phone’s Touch-Tone keypad. IVR can serve up prerecorded messages, route calls to specific departments or individuals, or pull data such as bank balances from systems — all without the need to speak to an agent. IVR systems benefit consumers by getting them the information they want quickly, without having to wait on hold.</p><p>A good IVR system is particularly useful for financial institutions, as many customer inquiries can be answered without taking up a representative’s time. Typical information for a bank’s IVR menu might include:</p><ul><li>Choice of languages in which to hear the menu</li><li>Directory of departments, including technical support</li><li>Account information, including balance checks</li><li>Automated bill payment</li><li>Appointment booking</li><li>Callback option, if all representatives are busy</li><li>Informational recording on topics such as</li><li>Services offered Business hours Email addresses Website URL Social media handles Directory of branch locations</li></ul><p>‍</p><h2>IVR menu best practices</h2><p>Whether you’re a bank, mortgage lender, stockbroker, or other financial services professional, following these best practices for IVR systems can help you create a better customer experience.</p><ul><li>Menu options — Don’t overwhelm customers with too many options at each level. Fewer choices make things easier for callers, as they have to remember the ones they’re hearing. Use a maximum of five items at each prompt.</li><li>Special keys — If any keys are reserved for special functions, tell callers about them up-front. For example, “At any time you can press or say 9 to return to the previous menu, or press 0 or say ‘operator’ to speak to an operator.” And that’s another best practice — at every level, give customers an option to speak to a customer service representative.</li><li>Menu order — Put the most popular options first in the IVR system, so callers have to spend less time listening for what they want.</li><li>Option order — Present a task followed by its associated action rather than the other way around, so callers can recognize what they want to do and don’t have to remember “what number was I supposed to press?” For example, “To hear your account balance, press or say or say 1.”</li><li>Accepted input — Allow callers to respond not only via keypress but also via voice. Some customers prefer one way, some the other; give people what they want.</li><li>Pauses — Include a pause of a second or so before giving the choices on a submenu. That allows time for people who have the phone up to their ear to shift it back there after pressing a keypad key.</li><li>Confirm menu level — Start submenus with a short message that confirms the caller has reached the place they intended. For example, “OK, balances. Press or say 1 for your checking account balance; press or say 2 for your savings account.”</li><li>Allow barge-in — Allow callers to select an option at any time — don’t force them to listen to an entire menu before they can make a selection.</li><li>Repeat as necessary — By default, repeat the menu if the caller doesn’t make a selection within a few seconds.</li></ul><p>‍</p><p>We offer more <a href="https://www.plivo.com/blog/ivr-best-practices/">IVR best practice</a> suggestions in a blog post, including our favorite: Don’t start off by telling callers, “Listen carefully as our menu options have changed.” No one cares.</p><h2>A sample bank IVR</h2><p>Every organization is different, so every organization’s IVR menu will be different too. We put this simple two-level menu together to give you some ideas. Undoubtedly your menu will require more levels. Also, there’s no single right way to map out a menu. In this example, we start out asking for a kind of account, but you might prefer to ask for a kind of task first and prompt for the account afterward.</p><p>Plan the entire menu tree before you start coding and before you start recording prompts.</p><p>Here’s our sample.</p><p>Thanks for calling Our Bank. How can we help you? You can press 0 or say “operator” at any time to reach a representative during business hours.</p><p>For personal banking services, press or say 1.<br>For business banking services, press or say 2.<br>For account inquiries, press or say 3.<br>For credit card services, press or say 4.<br>To apply for a new credit card, press or say 5.<br>For information on your card’s interest rate and other terms and conditions, press or say 6.</p><p>1: OK, personal banking.<br>For account balances and transaction history, press or say 1.<br>To transfer funds between accounts, press or say 2.<br>To make a bill payment, press or say 3.<br>To open a new account, press or say 4.<br>To report a lost or stolen card, press or say 5.</p><p>2: OK, business banking.<br>For account balances and transaction history, press or say 1.<br>To transfer funds between accounts, press or say 2.<br>To make a bill payment, press or say 3.<br>To open a new account, press or say 4.<br>For commercial loans and financing, press or say 5.<br></p><p>3: OK, account inquiries.<br>For account balances and transaction history, press or say 1.<br>To report a lost or stolen card, press or say 2.<br>To dispute a transaction, press or say 3.</p><p>4: OK, credit cards.<br>To check your outstanding balance, press or say 1.<br>To make a payment, press or say 2.<br>To report a lost or stolen card, press or say 3.<br>To dispute a transaction, press or say 4.</p><h2>How to create an IVR system with Plivo</h2><p><a href="https://www.plivo.com/">Plivo</a> makes things easy for businesses that want to implement IVR. We’ve written <a href="https://www.plivo.com/docs/voice/use-cases/ivr/python#xml-how-it-works">IVR use case guides</a> that show exactly how to create an IVR program in any of seven common web development languages, including annotated code samples.</p><p>If you’re not already a Plivo customer, <a href="https://console.plivo.com/accounts/register/">sign up for free today</a> and get started now.<br></p>
