---
title: "6 Ways to Use Contact Center Analytics to Improve Operations"
description: "Contact Center analytics uses technology to generate actionable insights from raw data. Here are 6 ways to use contact center analytics & reporting to improve operations."
pubDate: "2022-07-15T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2025-04-15T09:08:31.000Z"
image: "/images/blog/67fe0a33888acbbcd1a4acca_659550f6c60d91c27d415239_Screenshot-202024-01-03-20at-205.49.46-20PM.png"
thumbnail: "/images/blog/67fe0a33888acbbcd1a4acca_659550f6c60d91c27d415239_Screenshot-202024-01-03-20at-205.49.46-20PM.png"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: false
noindex: false
categories: ["contact-center"]
seoTitle: "Contact Center Analytics: How it helps to Improve Operations | PlivoCX Blog"
webflowItemId: "67fe0a34888acbbcd1a4ad15"
---
<h2>What is contact center analytics?</h2><p>A single customer service conversation can yield a seemingly infinite amount of information about both your consumers and customer service agents, and contact center analytics provide the method behind the madness to make sense of all that information.</p><p>Contact center analytics use technology to generate actionable insights from raw data—data which allows B2C teams to identify patterns in their customer service data and pinpoint potential product issues or contact center optimizations.</p><h2>How to use contact center analytics to improve operations</h2><p>The true power of contact center analytics lies in its ability to dramatically improve your team’s operations. This data is only as potent as it’s application, however, which begs the question: how do I put contact center analytics to work in my organization?</p><h3>Get a holistic view of contact center key metrics at a glance</h3><p>Just like a beautiful painting, it’s a lot easier to understand the nuance in the finer details once you’ve seen the whole picture. Sometimes, the best way to get a feel for how your agents are performing is by looking at your contact center from a bird’s eye view.</p><p>Contact center reporting and analytics offer a unique opportunity to look at the bigger picture, identifying common trends among support tickets. This could include evaluation of average handle time, first call resolution time, call / support abandonment rate, and then zooming in on individual metrics to identify outliers in each.</p><h3>Monitoring performance &amp; identifying training needs</h3><p>Call center analytics can provide you the boost that you need to level up your agents and optimize agent performance by monitoring service and identifying training needs.</p><p>By analyzing your contact center data and reflecting on customer sentiments, you can keep tabs on how your customer service reps are performing and identify any areas where additional training in product or platform knowledge would benefit your service team.</p><h3>Actionable customer service insights across all channels</h3><p><a href="https://blog.hubspot.com/service/customer-service-stats?__hstc=199338865.b9bac0a7c090cc12e17f4963a3e1dc2b.1696852037253.1704268998079.1704280518184.33&amp;__hssc=199338865.40.1704280518184&amp;__hsfp=3440551662" target="_blank">Preferred methods of customer service</a> can vary significantly from consumer base to consumer base. Are your customers trying to reach you via your social media channels? Is your consumer base largely made up of millennials, <a href="https://www.getapp.com/resources/most-preferred-customer-service-channels/" target="_blank">who on average prefer digital service channels over phone</a> ?</p><p>From common customer demographics to volume patterns in your support requests across channels, B2C teams can leverage contact center analytics to stay ahead of the specific needs of their brand’s consumers, allowing them to better meet customers where they are.</p><h3>Automate the customer feedback process</h3><p>With the right tools, B2C teams are capable of automating the customer feedback process, allowing them to glean further insights into how consumers are feeling after interacting with their customer service representatives.</p><p>Frequently asking customers <a href="https://www.contacto.com/blog/customer-satisfaction-survey/" target="_blank">the right questions</a> and analyzing their answers provides another valuable data point to include in your team’s contact center analytics. Identify common trends among customer feedback to optimize their support experience, and you just might create a lasting customer relationship.</p><h3>Generate reports for customer support teams</h3><p>Call center analytics and call center reports go hand-in-hand—while distinct from one another, they’re nearly inseparable in how they’re discussed by the industry at large. In the right hands, these two things work together harmoniously to provide a <a href="https://www.calabrio.com/wfo/contact-center-reporting/" target="_blank">continuous cycle of improvement</a> for data-driven support teams.</p><p>Essential metrics reports track relevant current and historical data, so you can identify trends over time. From customer satisfaction to agent productivity, the right contact center solution should provide reporting capabilities that enhance your ability to measure what matters most and provide a 360 degree view of a customer’s past and present needs.</p><h3>Help contact center managers with resource allocation</h3><p>Remember when we said it’s important to know your demographics, and how they like to be supported? Contact center reporting and analytics can act as a cheat code for your team to know where they need to be, when they need to be there, and allow you to tailor your team’s hours, channels, and skillsets to the support needs of your consumer base.</p><p>A modern contact center should provide visibility into the most demanding support needs of your organization by providing real-time data on your team’s activity and performance, allowing you to shift resources accordingly.</p><h3>Using contact center analytics to improve customer experience</h3><p>With more options for the consumer to choose from than ever before, it’s becoming increasingly difficult to separate yourself from your competition. The importance of differentiation through exceptional customer service cannot be overstated, and contact center analytics allow you to do exactly that.</p><p>Every support conversation is an opportunity to refine your customer service offering through <a href="https://www.contacto.com/blog/customer-communications/" target="_blank">effective customer communication</a>, evaluation of common trends in your <a href="https://www.contacto.com/blog/customer-satisfaction-survey/" target="_blank">customer feedback</a>, and then taking action to <a href="https://www.contacto.com/blog/reduce-customer-friction/" target="_blank">reduce customer friction</a>.</p><h3>Leverage built-in contact center analytics with Contacto</h3><p>PlivoCX Service is a cloud contact center software for B2C teams built with customer and agent satisfaction in mind. With Contacto, agent teams are supported by powerful reporting and analytics functionality, helpful automations, a unified desktop, and an <a href="https://www.contacto.com/blog/omnichannel-customer-service/" target="_blank">omnichannel experience</a>to exceed consumer needs and create happy customers and agents alike.</p><p>If you’re looking to keep up with the demands of the new era of support operations, we’re here to help.</p><p><a href="https://www.plivo.com/cx/service/request-demo" target="_blank">Book a demo with our sales team</a>, and we’ll help you find the right solution for your team’s needs.</p>
