---
title: "15 Survey Questions to Measure Customer Satisfaction"
description: "Customer satisfaction surveys help businesses to evaluate their performance in serving their customers. Find the best CSAT survey questions here!"
pubDate: "2022-07-08T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2025-04-15T09:08:31.000Z"
image: "/images/blog/67fe0a2aa2b4acd6e7bb1d4b_65955178bec0f87084480946_Screenshot-202024-01-03-20at-205.51.39-20PM.png"
thumbnail: "/images/blog/67fe0a2aa2b4acd6e7bb1d4b_65955178bec0f87084480946_Screenshot-202024-01-03-20at-205.51.39-20PM.png"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: false
noindex: false
categories: ["customer-experience", "customer-satisfaction"]
seoTitle: "15 Best Customer Satisfaction Survey Questions | PlivoCX Blog"
webflowItemId: "67fe0a2ba2b4acd6e7bb1dd4"
---
<p><strong>15 Survey Questions to Measure Customer Satisfaction</strong></p><p>With the incredible number of products for consumers to choose from, creating customer satisfaction and customer loyalty has never been more important for B2C businesses.</p><p>One of the best ways to measure how your customers are feeling is through the use of a customer satisfaction survey, or CSAT survey for short.</p><h2>What is a Customer Satisfaction Survey? </h2><p>As the name implies, a customer satisfaction survey (or CSAT survey for short) is an invaluable way for businesses to measure how satisfied their users are with the products or services that have been provided, while gaining insights into any points of friction that said users may experience.</p><p>These surveys are an essential piece of the puzzle when it comes to remaining relevant and competitive in a world where the customer is king.</p><h2>Importance of Customer Satisfaction Surveys</h2><p>Did you know that the acquisition cost of new customers is <a href="https://www.outboundengine.com/blog/customer-retention-marketing-vs-customer-acquisition-marketing/#:~:text=Acquiring%20a%20new%20customer%20can,customer%20is%205%2D20%25.">nearly 5 times more expensive</a> than the cost of retaining an existing customer? Or that <a href="https://www.superoffice.com/blog/customer-experience-statistics/#:~:text=For%20many%20companies%2C%20the%20absence,is%20a%20sign%20of%20satisfaction.&amp;text=In%20their%20future%20of%20CX,two%20or%20three%20negative%20interactions.">1 in 3 customers will leave a business they love after a single bad experience</a>? Gathering and understanding customer feedback is an essential ingredient when it comes to growing your business and building a loyal customer base.</p><p>Customer satisfaction surveys allow businesses to do exactly that—by understanding the hurdles that your customers have faced when it comes to your product or service, you are able <a href="https://www.contacto.com/blog/reduce-customer-friction/">to reduce friction and create repeat customers</a>.</p><h2>Different Types of Customer Satisfaction Surveys</h2><p>Customer satisfaction surveys can be broken up into <a href="https://userpilot.com/blog/customer-satisfaction-survey-saas/#:~:text=There%20are%20four%20main%20types,)%2C%20Product%2DMarket%20Fit.">four main categories</a>: Customer Satisfaction Score (CSAT), Net Promoter Score (NPS), Product-Market Fit (PMF), and Customer Effort Score (CES). Let’s take a moment to review each of these different types of surveys, and when your organization might want to utilize them.</p><h3><strong>Customer Satisfaction Score (CSAT)</strong></h3><p>CSAT surveys provide a scaled measurement of a customer’s satisfaction and/or experience with your team or product. </p><p>You should utilize CSAT surveys at different touchpoints in your customer’s journey with your business, such as after a purchase or a support request’s completion, to understand their overall satisfaction with their experience.</p><h3><strong>Net Promoter Score (NPS)</strong></h3><p>NPS surveys ask customers to provide answers to questions on a scale of 0-10 to determine a refined customer loyalty score on a scale of -100 to 100. </p><p>This is achieved by evaluating numerical responses tied to customer satisfaction and categorizing them into three groups: </p><ul><li>Detractors (0-6)</li><li>Passive (7-8)</li><li>Promoter (9-10)</li></ul><p>From here, simply add the submitted scores to the following formula to find your NPS score:</p><p><strong>(% of Promoter scores) – (% of Detractor scores) = Overall NPS score</strong></p><p>This type of survey is best utilized by mature products and teams looking to collect specific feedback that can be incorporated into product or service changes intended to enhance the overall customer experience.</p><h3><strong>Product-Market Fit (PMF)</strong></h3><p>A PMF survey is a customer satisfaction survey that provides an indication of whether or not your product has achieved product-market fit or not by asking users how they would feel if they could no longer use your product on a scale of “not disappointed” to “very disappointed”. </p><p>This type of survey is commonly used by newer products that are not yet far enough along to utilize an NPS survey.</p><h3><strong>Customer Effort Score (CES)</strong></h3><p>This type of survey measures the perceived effort required from the user to accomplish an action with regards to your product or service. </p><p>You will commonly find this type of survey used to gain an understanding of how your company might <a href="https://www.contacto.com/blog/reduce-customer-friction/">reduce customer friction</a> by removing obstacles they have experienced when utilizing your product or service.</p><h2>Best Customer Satisfaction Survey Questions</h2><p>Now that we’ve covered some of the different types of customer satisfaction surveys you might use, let’s talk about some of the best CSAT survey questions you might include when seeking feedback from your users, broken down by category.</p><h3><strong>Customer satisfaction questions specific to agents</strong></h3><p>The questions covered in this category can be used to measure how satisfied your customers are with the assistance they have received from your customer support team. </p><ol><li>Were we able to resolve your questions or concerns with our product?</li><li>Were we able to resolve your questions or concerns in a timely manner?</li><li>How much effort were you required to put into finding a resolution for your problem?</li><li>How did we compare to your expectations?</li><li>How responsive have we been to your questions or concerns?</li></ol><p>The responses you receive to these CSAT survey questions will allow your support team to improve upon future customer interactions.</p><h3><strong>Customer satisfaction questions specific to service channels</strong></h3><p>The CSAT survey questions included here can be used to measure how well you accommodate users requesting support via a specific service channel.</p><ol><li>What is your preferred channel to receive customer support through?</li><li>Was this your first time receiving support via [service channel]?</li><li>How intuitive was your service experience through [service channel]?</li><li>What other channels have you enjoyed receiving support through?</li><li>What could we have done differently to enhance your customer experience on this channel?</li></ol><p>By evaluating the responses you receive for the above customer satisfaction survey questions, you can determine which service channels your customers most prefer and allocate additional time, training, agents, and resources towards them.</p><h2>Customer satisfaction questions specific to the product or service</h2><p>The below survey questions can be used to evaluate your customer’s satisfaction with your product or service.</p><ol><li>How satisfied are you with our product / service?</li><li>How likely are you to recommend our product / service to a friend or colleague?</li><li>How well does our product meet your needs?</li><li>If you could recommend one improvement to our product / service, what would it be?</li><li>How would you rate the value versus price of our product?</li></ol><p>By evaluating the responses your customers leave about your product or service, you can evaluate which features your users care most about to gain valuable insight into your target audience’s preferences.</p><h2>Best Practices: Keeping in mind the objective and length of the survey</h2><p>When creating a customer satisfaction survey to share with your users, it’s important to keep in mind both the specific objective of the survey and the length of the survey.</p><p><a href="https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-science-behind-behavior/202106/why-customers-hate-participating-in-surveys">Most people don’t enjoy filling out surveys</a>. People do, however, <a href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesbusinessdevelopmentcouncil/2021/09/15/13-smart-ways-to-get-customers-to-fill-out-your-survey/?sh=5fe0e71d542a">respond well when they know that their contribution can make a difference</a>. By having a clearly defined objective in mind when creating your CSAT survey, you can decide which questions are most important to ask, exclude unnecessary filler, and encourage user participation all while respecting your customer’s time.</p><h2>How PlivoCX helps teams to enhance customer service</h2><p>PlivoCX is cloud contact center software for B2C teams built with customer and agent satisfaction in mind. With Contacto, agent teams are supported by helpful automations, a unified desktop, and an <a href="https://www.contacto.com/blog/omnichannel-customer-service/">omnichannel experience</a> to exceed consumer needs and create happy customers and agents alike.</p><p>If you’re looking to keep up with the demands of the new era of support operations, we’re here to help. </p><p><a href="https://www.plivo.com/cx/service/request-demo">Book a demo with our sales team</a>, and we’ll help you find the right solution for your team’s needs.</p>
