---
title: "Ensuring Data Security with Plivo CX Suite"
description: "At Plivo CX Suite, security is fundamental to our operations. We are pleased to announce that we have successfully upgraded our Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) certification to version 4.0."
pubDate: "2024-09-03T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2025-04-15T09:08:13.000Z"
image: "/images/blog/67fe0a504d0b1a63c8253f06_66d6f7940b182b124848d3e3_4.0-20Plivo-20CX-20PCI-20image.svg"
thumbnail: "/images/blog/67fe0a504d0b1a63c8253f09_66d6f7940b182b124848d3e3_4.0-20Plivo-20CX-20PCI-20image.svg"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: false
noindex: false
categories: ["security"]
seoTitle: "Ensuring Data Security with Plivo CX Suite"
webflowItemId: "67fe0a504d0b1a63c8253f35"
---
<p>At Plivo CX Suite, <a href="/cx/security">security</a> is fundamental to our operations. We are pleased to announce that we have successfully upgraded our Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) certification to version 4.0.</p><h2><strong>Plivo CX Achieves PCI DSS 4.0 Certification</strong></h2><p>Plivo CX Suite has achieved PCI DSS 4.0 certification, demonstrating our ongoing dedication to maintaining the highest standards of data security. This certification ensures that our processes and systems are aligned with the latest security requirements.</p><h3><strong>Overview of PCI DSS Standards</strong></h3><p>The PCI DSS is an industry-standard framework that outlines the requirements for organizations that handle payment card data. Compliance with this standard ensures that payment information is processed, stored, and transmitted securely. Key areas of focus include:</p><ul><li><strong>Network security:</strong> Implementation of firewalls and antivirus software to prevent unauthorized access.</li><li><strong>Data Protection</strong>: We safeguard your information by encrypting data during transmission using TLS 1.2+ and securing it at rest with AES-256 encryption.</li><li><strong>Access controls:</strong> Enforcement of strict password policies and multifactor authentication to restrict access to sensitive data.</li><li><strong>Defined responsibilities:</strong> Clearly assigned roles to ensure security protocols are followed at every level of the organization.</li></ul><p>These measures are regulated by the PCI Security Standards Council, which includes major credit card companies such as Visa, Mastercard, American Express, and Discover. Our certification confirms that Plivo CX Suite adheres to these rigorous standards.</p><h2><strong>Impact of PCI DSS Certification for Plivo CX Suite Customers</strong></h2><p>Holding a PCI DSS Level 1 certification, the highest level, means that Plivo CX Suite passed regular compliance audits and security assessments. A third-party, cloud-based payment platform handles Plivo’s transactions to reduce our exposure to direct payment data; nevertheless, our PCI DSS compliance remains essential. This certification aims to reassure our clients that Plivo CX platform is designed with your security in mind, providing the necessary infrastructure to protect your data.</p><h3><strong>PCI DSS Compliance: A Shared Responsibility</strong></h3><p>While Plivo CX Suite takes comprehensive steps to secure your data, it is important to recognize that PCI DSS compliance is a shared responsibility. We encourage our customers to:</p><ul><li><strong>Protect authentication credentials:</strong> Secure login details and API keys to prevent unauthorized access.</li><li><strong>Use the Plivo CX Suite console safely:</strong> Adhere to best practices for secure console usage.</li><li><strong>Ensure application compliance:</strong> Ensure your applications interact with Plivo CX Suite following PCI DSS standards.</li></ul><p>Together, we can maintain a secure environment for your data.</p><h2><strong>Beyond Certification: Plivo CX Suite's Commitment</strong></h2><p>Our recent PCI DSS 4.0 certification is part of our broader commitment to providing secure and reliable services. We continuously enhance our security measures, from internal controls to regular threat assessments, to protect your data and maintain your trust.</p><p>For organizations seeking a secure communications platform, Plivo CX Suite is equipped to meet your needs. <a href="https://www.plivo.com/cx/service/pricing#:~:text=with%0AService%20today!-,BOOK%20A%20DEMO,-PRODUCT">Contact our sales team</a> to learn more about how we can support your security requirements.</p><p>At Plivo CX Suite, safeguarding your data is our highest priority. We appreciate your trust and will continue to enhance our platform to provide you with the most secure service possible.</p>
