---
title: "How to Schedule a Text Message"
description: "Learn how SMS scheduling tools help businesses deliver messages at the right time, maximize impact, and boost conversions. Discover Plivo’s simple scheduling solutions."
pubDate: "2024-10-03T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2025-04-16T08:57:01.000Z"
image: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/66fe5d1765e5e7ef7337b4e1_Frame%201171277099.png"
thumbnail: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/66fe5d1765e5e7ef7337b4e1_Frame%201171277099.png"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: false
noindex: false
categories: ["whatsapp-business-api"]
seoTitle: "How to Schedule a Text Message"
webflowItemId: "66fe5db395e86de268d70fc5"
---
<p>The average person receives more than 40 text messages per day, according to <a href="https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2011/09/19/how-americans-use-text-messaging/">Pew Research Center</a>. And, despite all this SMS traffic, consumers are still eager to <a href="https://simpletexting.com/blog/2024-texting-and-sms-marketing-statistics/">get more messages from brands</a> like yours.&nbsp;</p><p>The trick for today’s businesses is to figure out how to deliver their SMS content to their audience at the right time. How can brands cut through the noise to make sure that consumers are hearing from them?&nbsp;</p><p>This is where SMS scheduling tools can help. SMS scheduling tools allow companies to write content and queue texts to send at just the right moment. These tools maximize the impact of your campaign, satisfy your customers’ desire to hear more from your business, and help increase conversions. Read on to learn more about scheduling text messages and how Plivo’s platform makes this easy.&nbsp;</p><h2>What are the best times to send text messages?</h2><p>TLDR: the best time to send text messages is during normal business hours, between 8 AM and 6 PM. In fact, some regions, including the US, regulate when you can send text messages. T<a href="https://www.business.com/articles/text-message-laws/">he Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA)</a> dictates that any business SMS communication must occur between 8 AM and 9 PM.&nbsp;</p><p>Within those parameters, there are a number of factors to consider when scheduling a text message blast. Here are a few things to keep in mind:&nbsp;</p><ul><li><strong>Your target audience</strong>. Think about the demographic you are texting. For example, young professionals will most likely look at their phones in the evening and at night, while seniors are more likely to be early risers.&nbsp;</li><li><strong>Your audience’s time zone(s)</strong>. Your customer locations should factor into when you send an SMS blast. For example, an SMS campaign scheduled for 10 AM EST would reach customers on the West Coast at 7 AM PST. This option is noncompliant with TCPA regulations.&nbsp;</li><li><strong>Your message goal</strong>. Think about the timing of your text as well as the scheduling. For instance, an appointment reminder should be sent at least 24 hours before the appointed time, whereas a one-time passcode should be sent immediately.&nbsp;</li><li><strong>Seasonality and holidays</strong>. It’s a general best practice not to send messages on holidays. In addition, consider the seasonality of your campaign. A well-timed scheduled text before a holiday weekend can prompt someone to remember to shop your sales, pick-up a last-minute vacation item, or send a gift.</li></ul><p>Multiple studies show that while <a href="https://simpletexting.com/sms-marketing/campaigns/best-time-to-send/">there are ideal times to send SMS</a>, each company should develop its own schedule according to its business goals and customer needs.&nbsp;</p><h2>How to schedule a text message</h2><p>Individuals and businesses can both schedule SMS to send in different ways. Businesses can access services like Plivo to bulk send SMS campaigns. For individuals, the method you use will depend on whether you have an iPhone or an Android device.</p><h3>Schedule a text on iPhone</h3><p>While iMessage does not have a built-in feature for scheduling messages, three options can make this functionality possible.&nbsp;</p><h4>Option 1: Use the Shortcuts app</h4><p>Use the Shortcuts app on your iPhone to schedule texts by following these steps.&nbsp;</p><ol><li>Open the Shortcuts app on your iPhone.</li><li>Tap on the Automation tab at the bottom, then select "Create Personal Automation."</li><li>Choose "Time of Day" to specify when you want the message to be sent.</li><li>Tap "Add Action," then search for and select "Send Message."</li><li>Type your message and select the recipient(s).</li><li>Disable 'Ask Before Running' if you want the message to send automatically without confirmation (toggle off this option).</li><li>Review your automation and tap "Next," then "Done" to save it.</li></ol><p>Note that this automation will need to be manually disabled if you don’t want it to repeat in the future.</p><h4>Option 2: Use a third-party app</h4><p>Third-party apps provide more robust scheduling options than the Shortcuts app. However, these apps come with caveats; some ask you to pay beyond a certain number of scheduled texts. Others can increase your security risk. Only download apps from the official App Store and research the developer's reputation.&nbsp;</p><p>Explore options such as <a href="https://apps.apple.com/us/app/scheduled-send-text-later/id1145815975">Scheduled</a>, <a href="https://apps.apple.com/us/app/moxy-messenger/id1363681012">Moxy Messenger</a>, or <a href="https://apps.apple.com/us/app/fext-auto-sms-scheduler/id1518706313">Fext</a> to see if a third-party app is the right solution for you.&nbsp;</p><h4>Option 3: Use the iPhone Reminders app</h4><p>The built-in Reminders app on your iPhone is a third option if you prefer not to download an app. While it can't automatically send text messages, it will make it easy to streamline the process. Here’s how:&nbsp;</p><ol><li>Open the Reminders app on your iPhone.&nbsp;</li><li>Tap the "+" button in the bottom-right corner to create a new list. Name the list something like "Text Messages" and choose a color.</li><li>Within the list, tap the "+" button again to add a new reminder. Title the reminder (e.g., "Text Zach").</li><li>Tap the details icon (the "i" in a circle) next to the reminder title. Select a date and time for the notification to appear.</li><li>In the "Notes" section, write the text you want to send.</li><li>Tap "Done" to save the reminder.</li><li>When the reminder appears at the scheduled time, open it and follow these steps:some text<ul><li>Double-tap the note to select the entire message.</li><li>Tap the "Share" button.</li><li>Choose the recipient from your contacts list.</li><li>Paste the selected text into the message field.</li></ul></li></ol><p>This process is more labor intensive, but it gives you full control over sending the text message.&nbsp;</p><h3>Schedule a text on Android</h3><p>For Android users, the process varies slightly depending on the messaging app you use. Note that <a href="https://www.messagedesk.com/blog/how-to-schedule-a-text-message">if your phone isn't connected to Wi-Fi or data</a> when the time comes to send the text, your message will only be sent when you’re reconnected.</p><h4>Option 1: Use the Samsung Galaxy Messages app</h4><ol><li>Launch the default Messages app on your Samsung device.</li><li>Write your message and select the recipient.</li><li>Tap the "+" or the arrow next to the send button, then select the "Schedule message" option.</li><li>Choose the date and time for sending the message.</li><li>Tap "Send" to schedule the message.</li></ol><h4>Option 2: Use the Messages by Google app</h4><p>If you have this app, you can also schedule text messages in advance.&nbsp;</p><ol><li>Open the app to start a new conversation or select an existing one.</li><li>Write your message as usual.</li><li>Long-press the send button until the scheduling options appear. Choose a suggested time or select "Pick date and time" for a custom schedule.</li><li>Confirm your selections and tap "Save" to schedule the message</li></ol><h4>Option 3: Use your Google Calendar app</h4><p>This option is similar to the iPhone solution of using Reminders to prompt you to manually send a text message. While less convenient, it does give you control over the sending process.&nbsp;</p><ol><li>Open the Google Calendar app</li><li>Tap the "+"&nbsp; to create a new event&nbsp;</li><li>Choose a date and time to send your text. Enter event details (e.g., “Text Zach”), the date and time you’d like to send the text, and your message content in the notes section.&nbsp;</li><li>Set a notification reminder for the time you would like to send the text.&nbsp;</li><li>Tap done to save the event.&nbsp;</li><li>When the reminder appears at the scheduled time, open it and follow these steps:some text<ul><li>Select your text and copy it</li><li>Open your preferred message app</li><li>Choose the recipient from your contacts list.</li><li>Paste the selected text into the message field.</li></ul></li></ol><h4>Option 4: Use a third-party app</h4><p>Android users can also download third-party apps to schedule a text message. Do your research to find a reputable app and only download one from the Google Play Store to keep your data safe. Try options like <a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.textra&amp;hl=en&amp;pli=1">Textra</a>, <a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.p1.chompsms&amp;hl=de">Chomp</a>, or <a href="https://play.google.com/store/search?q=pulse+sms&amp;c=apps&amp;hl=de">Pulse SMS</a> to schedule messages on Android devices.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><h2>Plivo: the easy way to schedule text messages</h2><p>Plivo makes it easy to schedule text messages through our <a href="https://www.plivo.com/docs/messaging/use-cases/sms-marketing/python/">SMS API</a>. You can send bulk SMS messages either by using our PHLO visual workflow builder or our API. Plus, you can work in the programming language of your choice: Node, Ruby, Python, or another one.&nbsp;</p><p>To get started, you need a Plivo account. Once you’re set up, all it takes is a few simple steps to write your message, choose recipients, and determine when the message should be sent. It’s a great option for marketing messages, customer surveys, or any other timed text message you wish to send to your audience.&nbsp;</p><h2>Conclusion</h2><p>Scheduling text messages isn’t the only thing Plivo’s platform can help you master. Plivo’s platform is engineered for high availability, extreme reliability and 99.95% uptime SLA. With premium customer support and low total cost of ownership, Plivo’s cloud-based communications platform can help reach all your messaging goals. Learn more by <a href="https://console.plivo.com/accounts/request-trial/">requesting a free trial</a>.&nbsp;</p>
