---
title: "Why SMS / Voice Verification is Here to Stay"
description: "Prepare for Okta's SMS verification sunset on September 15 by integrating Plivo in minutes. As all Okta users need to bring their own provider (BYOP), Plivo offers cost-effective, pay-as-you-go pricing, 24/7 support, and no authentication fees. Enjoy reliable voice, WhatsApp, and SMS verifications with 99.99% uptime, plus free Fraud Shield. Discover Plivo and Okta integration in minutes."
pubDate: "2024-09-06T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2024-09-27T07:42:35.000Z"
image: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/66da8e0822aa9880e20ec002_why-sms.png"
thumbnail: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/66da8e0822aa9880e20ec002_why-sms.png"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: false
noindex: false
categories: ["sms-api", "voice-api", "verify-api"]
seoTitle: "Integrate Plivo with Okta in 5 Minutes | Secure and Cost-Effective Verification Solutions"
webflowItemId: "66d87481665ba452a2f5f534"
---
<p>Okta will <a href="https://sec.okta.com/articles/2023/08/byo-telephony-and-future-sms-okta/">sunset its SMS and voice verification service</a> on September 15, meaning all Okta users need to bring their own provider (BYOP) to continue offering one-time passcode (OTP) verification using these channels. Okta will focus on password-less options like FastPass or FIDO2 WebAuthn.&nbsp;</p><p>While FastPass and WebAuthn undeniably offer advanced security features, we believe SMS and voice authentication methods remain relevant in enterprise environments. There are compelling reasons enterprises should continue using <a href="https://www.plivo.com/">Plivo</a> with Okta for SMS and voice OTP authentication. Not only that, but Plivo makes it easy to integrate with Okta and make sure your customers never experience a delay, miss an OTP, or get frustrated trying to log in.&nbsp;</p><p>{{cta-style-1}}</p><p>Here are some key benefits and considerations that make these channels both a viable and valuable choice for businesses today.</p><h2>6 SMS and voice OTP advantages</h2><h3>1. Universal accessibility and compatibility</h3><p>The wide user reach makes SMS and voice verification a good option for global enterprises. SMS and voice authentication methods are not limited by the type of device a user has. Whether someone is using a basic feature phone or a high-end smartphone, SMS and voice work seamlessly across all mobile devices. Users don’t need to install specific applications, possess hardware tokens, or have smartphones.</p><p>Using multiple channels for OTPs also creates redundancy that fosters greater reliability.&nbsp; SMS and Voice OTPs serve as reliable backup methods when primary authentication methods fail or are unavailable due to technical issues or user device problems. This redundancy ensures continuity and reduces the risk of access interruptions.</p><blockquote>Did you know? Plivo also supports <a href="https://www.plivo.com/whatsapp/">WhatsApp</a>, with email and RCS messaging coming soon!</blockquote><p>This inclusivity ensures users can participate in secure authentication processes regardless of their technological capabilities or resources.</p><h3>2. Ease of integration</h3><p>On the business side, most enterprises already support SMS and voice OTPs, making these methods easy to maintain and expand. This established infrastructure reduces the need for significant investment in new systems, allowing businesses to continue leveraging their existing resources. Plivo’s <a href="https://www.plivo.com/verify/">Verify API</a> integrates seamlessly, allowing developers to slash implementation time by 90%.</p><h3>3. User familiarity and convenience</h3><p>Because OTPs enjoy global reach, the process is straightforward and familiar to most users. The simplicity of receiving and entering a code into a system makes SMS and voice OTPs convenient for users of all ages and technical proficiency levels. This familiarity reduces the need for extensive training and support, enabling smoother adoption and fewer usability issues.</p><p>For developer teams, unlike advanced authentication methods that may require setup, enrollment, or understanding of new technologies, SMS and voice authentication can be deployed immediately. Plivo’s Verify API is ready to go in<a href="https://www.plivo.com/verify/"> just one sprint.</a></p><h3>4. Support for non-corporate users</h3><p>Not all users interacting with an enterprise's systems have corporate-managed devices or can install apps like FastPass or use WebAuthn’s advanced features. Contractors, remote workers, and temporary workers still need a way to secure their accounts without requiring corporate IT involvement. OTPs allow for secure authentication without complex device management policies, making them ideal for BYOD and hybrid work scenarios.</p><h3>5. Affordable and scalable</h3><p>OTPs have low initial investment costs: enterprises do not need to purchase and distribute hardware tokens or ensure all users have compatible devices. This reduces the upfront costs associated with more advanced authentication methods.</p><p>SMS and Voice services can be easily scaled up or down based on demand, allowing businesses to adjust their authentication capabilities without significant additional costs or logistical challenges. Plivo offers flexible pricing models, enabling organizations of all sizes to adopt these methods economically. Plus, Plivo Verify comes with:</p><ul><li>Zero authentication fees</li><li>Fraud Shield for free</li><li>No regulatory overhead</li><li>No need to purchase numbers</li><li>Reduced technical support costs</li><li>No monthly phone number rental fee</li></ul><p>Supporting advanced authentication methods can increase technical support needs due to issues like setup, device compatibility, or app installations. SMS and voice-based methods, however, are simple and intuitive, requiring little to no user guidance and reducing the burden on IT support.</p><h3>6. Meet compliance standards	&nbsp;</h3><p>In some industries, such as finance and healthcare, and in certain regions, SMS and voice OTPs are recognized and accepted methods for multi-factor authentication. These methods help enterprises meet regulatory requirements without the need to adopt newer technologies that may not yet be standardized.</p><p><a href="https://www.plivo.com/security/">Plivo</a> is HIPAA, GDPR, and PCI DSS compliant, with SOC 2 and ISO 27001:2022 certification.</p><h2>Get started with Plivo</h2><p>While modern authentication methods like FastPass and WebAuthn offer enhanced security, SMS and voice OTPs remain relevant and valuable for all businesses. Their universal accessibility, ease of use, cost-effectiveness, and role as a reliable backup make them indispensable in various enterprise contexts.</p><p>Okta users can integrate Plivo in five minutes or less. <strong>Our off-the-shelf API is designed to “go live in one sprint.” </strong>With a 95% OTP conversion rate and the lowest costs per conversion, Plivo’s Verify API is well suited for businesses of all sizes. Learn more to ensure secure, inclusive, and resilient access for all users, regardless of their technological capabilities.</p>
