---
title: "Introducing New Plivo Support Plans"
description: "Our redesigned support plans ensure you get the help you need from Plivo, whenever you need it."
pubDate: "2020-09-16T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2024-07-08T10:50:15.000Z"
image: "/images/blog/6582649123658a2738802b30_New_Support_plans_blog.svg"
thumbnail: "/images/blog/6582649123658a2738802b30_New_Support_plans_blog.svg"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: true
noindex: false
categories: ["support"]
seoTitle: "Introducing New Plivo Support Plans"
webflowItemId: "658265040d607e3d2df1c8d3"
---
<p>We’ve redesigned our <a href="https://www.plivo.com/support-plans/">Plivo support plans</a> to ensure you can get the help you need, whenever you need it. Our new support offerings provide improved service level agreements, and businesses that need custom assistance from Plivo’s support team can gain access to a dedicated account team for guidance on complex integrations and faster issue resolution.</p><p>Plivo gives customers one-on-one, fast-response support from experienced technical support engineers, all of whom are experts across Plivo’s multiple products and services. Here’s a breakdown of our new support plans:</p><p><strong>Basic Support (free):</strong> This is our free plan, which every Plivo customer has access to. It includes Plivo’s real-time status dashboard within the console, which provides the most up-to-date and timely service health information, as well as speedy email support. We don’t offer specified response times on this plan, but our support engineers always aim to get back to you within one business day. As with all Plivo services, you don’t need contracts or minimum commitments to get support.</p><p><strong>Priority Support ($250):</strong> This new plan includes 24/5 email support for users with sensitive and high-severity issues. If you’re experiencing critical issues, Plivo will get back to you in three hours or less, no matter the time of the day.</p><p><strong>Business Support ($750):</strong> This premium plan offers 24/7 support for critical issues and an SLA of one hour for priority 1 and 2 issues.</p><p><strong>Personalized Support ($2,500):</strong> This top-tier plan is perfect for customers who need guidance on products and configurations that are specific to their use cases. If you’re a large enterprise that wants to consult with Plivo for bigger-scale planning and problem resolution, this is the route you should go. Benefits include:</p><ul><li><strong>24/7 response</strong>: Access to Plivo support staff via email, phone, and chat via Slack 24 hours a day, with a one-hour service level agreement for business-critical issues.</li><li><strong>Dedicated customer success manager</strong>: Access to a designated contact at Plivo who understands the scope of your project or integration, is well-versed in your programming language, and can assist in expediting issue resolution.</li><li><strong>Quarterly business reviews</strong>: We’ll meet with you quarterly to review your support tickets and use cases, and assist you with capacity planning and optimizing any deployments specific to Plivo.</li></ul><p>If for any reason you need to change your level of support, you can upgrade or move back to a lower-tier plan, no questions asked. With pay-by-the-month pricing and an unlimited number of support cases, you won’t be bound to any long-term commitments and can find a plan that fits your business needs.</p><p>Not using <a href="https://www.plivo.com/">Plivo</a> yet but considering getting started? <a href="https://console.plivo.com/accounts/register/">Sign up</a> today. It only takes five minutes.</p>
