---
title: "Introducing Contacto: Omnichannel Customer Service with a Human Touch"
description: "Introducing Contacto, a mobile-first omnichannel contact center for consumer-facing businesses. Uplevel your B2C customer service - Learn more today."
pubDate: "2021-10-06T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2025-05-19T11:39:33.000Z"
image: "/images/blog/67fe0a5eceb4fd77758fbde5_659556d8a0d06de9330b0a8b_Screenshot-202024-01-03-20at-206.14.52-20PM.png"
thumbnail: "/images/blog/67fe0a5eceb4fd77758fbdf2_659556d8a0d06de9330b0a8b_Screenshot-202024-01-03-20at-206.14.52-20PM.png"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: false
noindex: true
categories: ["product"]
seoTitle: "Introducing Contacto: Omnichannel Customer Service with a Human Touch | Contacto Blog"
webflowItemId: "67fe0a5eceb4fd77758fbe75"
---
<p>Almost everyone has had a poor customer service experience at some time or another. We’ve heard them all:</p><ul><li>Waiting on the phone line for hours for the next available representative</li><li>Repeating basic information over and over again as you’re transferred to new agents</li><li>Being unable to find the answers to a simple, standard question without connecting with an agent</li><li>Finding out the only way you could contact the customer service department was via email</li></ul><p>We have a better way.</p><p>We want to make it possible for every company, no matter their size, to provide customers with world-class customer service interactions.</p><h2>A mobile-first omnichannel contact center for consumer-facing businesses</h2><p>Most businesses don’t have the time or resources to build out a fully customized contact center — especially not those nimble businesses in B2C retail and ecommerce, where efficient, effective customer service is a growing competitive advantage.</p><p><a href="/" target="_blank">Contacto</a> was purpose-built for today’s mobile-first consumer world so businesses can deliver the fast, flexible, and frictionless customer support that shoppers want. The platform combines traditional and emerging communication channels with an easy-to-use interface and out-of-the-box customizability to fit your business and your shoppers.</p><p>With Contacto, you can deliver exceptional customer experiences across channels, all while boosting agent productivity and effectiveness — and potentially even reducing your operational costs.</p><p>Let’s look at the channels of communication Contacto can facilitate, then dig deeper into the features of the platform.</p><h3>Communication channels</h3><p>The essence of omnichannel is offering a cohesive customer experience at every touchpoint, and that includes facilitating <a href="/blog/customer-communications/">convenient communication</a> methods for fast, easy resolutions.</p><p>Contacto comes with native, full-featured <strong>voice capabilities</strong> so there’s no need to engage costly third-party vendors for enterprise-grade, in-call features, excellent call quality, and high reliability.</p><p><strong>Web and in-app chat</strong> embedded directly into a brand’s application or website let customers interact with retailers while they shop and beyond.</p><p>Customers can choose messaging via <strong>SMS, MMS, or WhatsApp</strong> — the leading consumer chat app. Brands can also utilize notifications to deliver proactive support updates.</p><p>Native integrations with social platforms like <strong>Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram</strong> are set to debut in Q4 2021.</p><h3>Feature highlights</h3><p>Contacto revolves around a <strong>unified agent desktop</strong>, where all communications channels are presented in a single simple interface.</p><p>That enables agents to:</p><ul><li>Respond to all incoming conversations from one screen, no matter their channel</li><li>View the customer’s associated conversation timeline and interaction history</li><li>Create and manage information in third-party systems without leaving Contacto</li></ul><p>Contacto is designed to work seamlessly with a business’s existing systems, with out-of-the-box integrations with <strong>Salesforce, Salesforce Service Cloud, Zendesk, Shopify,</strong> and more.</p><p>With all that information in one place, agents have the context they need to solve issues faster and create a more tailored experience for the customer.</p><h3>The Plivo advantage</h3><p>Contacto is built on <strong>Plivo’s Premium Communications Network</strong>, which has been proven for scale over the last 10 years with billions of requests each month. Contactonatively supports voice and emerging channels like in-app chat, WhatsApp, and social media, and has prebuilt integrations with existing applications like Salesforce, Zendesk, Shopify, and Kustomer.</p><h2>Sound interesting? Join our waitlist!</h2><p>Interested in giving Contacto a try? You can join the waitlist to try Contacto for free, and our team will reach out when we’re ready to onboard our next batch of customers. We look forward to helping you delight your customers through service with a human touch.</p>
