---
title: "7 IVR Script Examples to Help You Build Your Own"
description: "Bridge the gap in customer service with effective IVR scripts that streamline self-service, reduce wait times, and improve satisfaction. Explore seven examples."
pubDate: "2024-11-11T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2024-12-18T07:09:31.000Z"
image: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/67320a3b691c6ea6682a820a_Frame%201171277097%20(1).png"
thumbnail: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/67320a3b691c6ea6682a820a_Frame%201171277097%20(1).png"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: false
noindex: false
categories: ["ivr"]
seoTitle: "7 Effective IVR Scripts to Boost Customer Satisfaction | Plivo"
webflowItemId: "673201c46d8cc778b8b0c11f"
---
<p>Today’s customers want to independently handle customer service needs: <a href="https://get.nice.com/rs/069-KVM-666/images/0003959_en_digital-first-cx-report.pdf">81% say they prefer self-service</a> options, but many businesses believe only 60% want it. This 21-point difference can leave many customers frustrated.</p><p>Interactive voice response (IVR) systems bridge the gap between what customers want—self service—and what businesses think they want. But an IVR system can be a double-edged sword. If the IVR script is poorly designed, it can make customers even more frustrated.</p><p>A well-crafted IVR script is so important. The right script can save your team time and help customers meet their needs quickly. In this article, we'll present seven examples of effective IVR scripts to inspire you and guide you in creating your own.</p><h2>What is an IVR script?</h2><p>An IVR script is a pre-recorded conversation that directs callers through a menu of options when they dial in. IVR systems use both keypad tones (dual-tone multi-frequency, or DTMF technology) and voice commands, along with pre-recorded messages. This means the caller can either press keys or speak to move through the menu.&nbsp;&nbsp;</p><p>Newer systems even incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) to create a more personalized experience for each caller.</p><h2>Why does an IVR script matter?</h2><p>A well-crafted IVR script can save time and resources while improving call containment rates and customer satisfaction. Companies with IVR systems in place are noticing <a href="https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/operations/our-insights/getting-the-best-customer-service-from-your-ivr-fresh-eyes-on-an-old-problem">3-4% increase</a> in call containment rates and a 10-25% increase in caller satisfaction.</p><p>On top of that, IVR offers several benefits:</p><ul><li><strong>Cost savings:</strong> A good IVR script can reduce calls to your agents by over <a href="https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/operations/our-insights/operations-blog/why-ivr-still-matters-in-an-ai-world">10%</a>. This helps you save on staffing costs as customers get the information they need without requiring follow-up assistance.</li><li><strong>Consistent experiences:</strong> Clear IVR scripts ensure that every caller receives the same professional experience that aligns with your company's image. You control the tone and message for each interaction.</li><li><strong>24/7 customer support:</strong> When your agents aren't available, IVR can play a message informing callers when they can expect to reach someone.</li><li><strong>Improved customer service:</strong> IVR reduces wait times and improves First Contact Resolution (FCR) by directing callers to the right person or team, allowing them to resolve issues in the first instance.</li></ul><h2>How can you write an effective IVR script?</h2><p>Building a good IVR script takes some thought and knowing what's most important for your business. Let's break down the key steps.</p><h3>Identify your goals</h3><p>Start by identifying the goals and challenges you want your IVR system to address. To make a helpful script, you'll need to understand the questions and problems your customers often have. By predicting their needs, your IVR can provide quick answers without a live agent.</p><h3>Make it easy to navigate</h3><p>Once you understand your IVR’s purpose, write a simple script that helps callers find their answers in just a few steps. Ensure it’s easy to follow, guiding callers smoothly toward the information they need.</p><h3>Align the script to your brand</h3><p>The way your IVR script communicates should align with your brand’s voice. It should be easy for your customers to understand. Even though the IVR handles questions once answered by live agents, it should still reflect your brand.</p><h3>Keep improving the script</h3><p>Regularly review your IVR script and update it based on customer feedback and usage patterns. This helps it remain effective and user-friendly.</p><h2>7 IVR script examples</h2><p>IVR messages should be concise, swiftly guiding callers to the right answers. A good script helps customers and supports your customer service team by automating common queries and directing complex calls to the right agent.</p><p>Now, let's look at examples of IVR scripts for various scenarios.&nbsp;</p><h3>#1: General greeting scripts</h3><p>The general greeting acts as the first "hello" your IVR gives to callers. It’s a key moment to make a strong first impression. For example:&nbsp;</p><p><em>"Thanks for calling [your company name].</em></p><p><em>We're your go-to source for [briefly mention what you offer].</em></p><p><em>To continue in English, stay on the line. For Spanish, oprima uno.&nbsp;</em></p><p><em>If you know the extension you need, please dial it or say it now.&nbsp;</em></p><p><em>If not, stay on the line to hear more options. Thanks again for choosing [company name]. We value your business!"</em></p><h4>Why does a greeting script matter?</h4><p>Your greeting script is the first thing customers hear when they call for support. If it's too long or unclear, they might hang up. The best greetings are short and clear to get things off to a smooth start.</p><p>If you offer multilingual support, give customers the option to choose their preferred language right at the beginning.</p><h3>#2: Menu options scripts</h3><p>Menu option scripts guide callers to the right department. Consistency across all menu options ensure every customer has a similar experience.</p><p>Here’s what a menu script looks like:</p><p><em>"Thanks for calling [company name]. We'll be with you shortly. Please choose from the following options to help us direct your call:</em></p><ul><li><em>To reach Sales, press 1.</em></li><li><em>For Customer Support, press 2.</em></li><li><em>For Billing, press 3.</em></li><li><em>If you need Tech Support, press 4.</em></li><li><em>For anything else, press 5 or stay on the line.</em></li><li><em>To hear these options again, press 9.</em></li></ul><p><em>Just a heads-up, this call may be recorded for training and quality purposes.”</em></p><h4>Why does a menu options script matter?</h4><p><a href="https://www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/operations/our-insights/operations-blog/why-ivr-still-matters-in-an-ai-world">Seven out of ten companies</a> have IVR containment rates of less than 30%. Confusing menu options are a big reason for this low rate. If callers don't understand their choices, they're more likely to hang up.</p><p>Prevent this by keeping your instructions brief and to the point. State the department name first, followed by the number to press.</p><p>Plivo makes building your IVR menu a breeze through tools like <a href="https://plivo-webflow.webflow.io/blog/how-to-build-virtual-assistant-the-no-code-way-using-phlo">PHLO</a> for drag-and-drop design or by coding it with your preferred <a href="https://www.plivo.com/docs/voice/use-cases/ivr/python#xml-how-it-works">SDK and Plivo XML</a>. For added efficiency, the <a href="https://www.plivo.com/blog/maximize-ivr-menu-efficiency-with-preanswer/">PreAnswer</a> XML element can provide callers with key information while they wait.</p><p>You can also use PreAnswer to address frequently asked questions. If you have a department that receives the same questions repeatedly, record answers and play them to callers. This can reduce wait times and free up agents to handle more complex issues.</p><h3>#3: Callback request scripts</h3><p>Callback request scripts give customers a way to skip the wait on hold. They can simply request a call back when it's less busy and at a time that works for them.</p><p>Here’s an example of a callback request script:</p><p><em>"Hello, and thank you for calling [Company Name]. We value your time and are committed to helping you as soon as possible.</em></p><p><em>Our team is currently busy, but we'd be happy to call you back at your convenience. To schedule a callback, press 1.</em></p><p><em>If you prefer to stay on the line, please hold, or press 2 to leave a voicemail.</em></p><p><em>We appreciate your patience and look forward to connecting with you shortly. Thank you for choosing [Company Name]."</em></p><h4>Why does a callback request script matter?</h4><p>Offering a callback option shows customers that you value their time. Clear instructions, such as pressing a button to request a callback, enhance customer satisfaction.</p><p>Even if someone decides to stay on the line, just knowing they have the option can make a big difference.</p><h3>#4: Appointment scheduling scripts</h3><p>These scripts allow customers to book, confirm, or modify appointments via the IVR system. Your IVR menu should give customers the option to do it themselves or connect them to someone who can help.</p><p>Here’s what an appointment scheduling script typically looks like:</p><p><em>"Welcome to [Company Name]! We're ready to help you book your perfect appointment.</em></p><ul><li><em>To schedule a new appointment, press 1.</em></li><li><em>To reschedule an existing appointment, press 2.</em></li><li><em>To cancel an appointment, press 3.</em></li><li><em>For other queries, press 4.</em></li><li><em>If you'd prefer to talk to one of our booking experts, press 5 or stay on the line.</em></li></ul><p><em>We’re here to help Monday through Friday, from [business hours].</em></p><p><em>Need to hear those options again? Just press 9.</em></p><p><em>We appreciate you choosing [Company Name] and can't wait to see you soon!"</em></p><h4>Why does an appointment scheduling script matter?</h4><p>Customers appreciate simplicity, especially when booking appointments. A clear and direct script allows them to manage their schedules quickly while reducing strain on agents handling this routine task.</p><h3>#5: Call transfer scripts</h3><p>A call transfer script explains what's happening when a customer is being transferred to someone else or a different team. Here’s an example:&nbsp;</p><p><em>"Thank you for your patience.</em></p><p><em>We want to make sure you get the help you need, so we're transferring your call to an expert who can assist with your specific question.</em></p><p><em>Please hold for a moment.&nbsp;</em></p><p><em>We value your call and appreciate you choosing [company name]."</em></p><h4>Why does a call transfer script matter?</h4><p>Call transfers happen occasionally, but they can confuse customers if not done smoothly. A good transfer message reassures them that the wait will be brief, and they won't need to repeat themselves.</p><h3>#6: On hold or waiting message scripts</h3><p>Waiting messages inform customers while they're waiting in line for the next available agent. Hold messages play when a call is being transferred, an agent is working to resolve an issue, or the call is connecting to a different team. Typically, both types of messages are repeated periodically, alternating with the hold music.</p><p>Here’s an example:&nbsp;</p><p><em>"Thanks for calling [company name]. We're currently experiencing a high volume of calls but appreciate your patience.</em></p><p><em>You're number [x] in the queue with an estimated wait time of [y] minutes.</em></p><p><em>In the meantime, you can visit our website at [company website] for more information.</em></p><p><em>Thank you for choosing [company name]."</em></p><h4>Why does an on hold or waiting message script matter?</h4><p>Waiting can be frustrating, especially if the caller doesn’t know how long they’ll be on hold. Keeping customers updated with their position in the queue and an estimated wait time can reduce frustration and improve the overall experience.</p><h3>#7: After-business hours message scripts</h3><p>An after-business hours message notifies callers that your agents are unavailable and informs them when your business will reopen.</p><p>Here’s what an after-business hours script looks like:</p><p><em>"Thank you for calling [company name]. Our regular business hours are [start time] to [end time], [days of the week]. We're currently closed but will be happy to assist you when we reopen.</em></p><p><em>For urgent matters, visit our support center at [company website]. You'll find answers to common questions and troubleshooting tips there.</em></p><p><em>To leave a message and receive a callback during our business hours, please press 1.</em></p><p><em>We appreciate your patience and look forward to speaking with you soon. Thank you for choosing [company name]."</em></p><h4>Why does an after business hours script matter?</h4><p>Customers need to know when they can reach you again. Providing an after-hours message helps set clear expectations, builds trust, and offers them a way to leave a message for follow-up.</p><h2>IVR script best practices</h2><p>An IVR system is like having a helpful assistant in your contact center. It helps answer calls efficiently, connects people to the right departments, and ultimately improves customer satisfaction.</p><p>To ensure your IVR system works seamlessly, refer to these five <a href="https://www.plivo.com/blog/ivr-best-practices/">IVR best practices</a>.</p><h3>#1: Keep it simple</h3><p>Use plain language and offer clear choices. Avoid overwhelming callers with too many options or questions.</p><p>While IVR systems can be complex, simplicity is key to avoid confusion. Focus on the most common questions that the system can easily answer.</p><h3>#2: Prioritize popular menu options&nbsp;</h3><p>Analyze customer data to determine the most popular menu options. Placing these at the top of your IVR menu can reduce frustration and improve call handling times.</p><p>For example, if most calls are about billing or account issues, place the "billing and account" option first.</p><h3>#3: Map out customer paths</h3><p>Before you start building your IVR menu, plan the different paths customers might take<strong>.</strong> Your menu will likely include multiple levels, starting with language selection. Some options may lead customers to a specific department, while others might connect them to a recording or automated system.</p><p>Consider offering different choices based on time. For instance, you might not want to offer sales options outside of business hours. Instead, you can let customers leave a message.</p><h3>#4: A/B test your scripts</h3><p>A/B testing your IVR scripts involves trying out two versions to see which one works best. This can help you identify which approach leads to shorter call times and greater customer satisfaction.</p><p>Test small changes like wording or the order of options, or try entirely different menu structures to optimize the experience.</p><h3>#5: Offer an exit option</h3><p>No matter how good your IVR system is, some customers will always prefer speaking to a live agent. Make it easy for them by offering an option to reach an agent in the menu. This prevents frustration and reduces hang-ups, guaranteeing that everyone has a path to the assistance they need.</p><h2>Revamp your IVR system using Plivo</h2><p><a href="https://www.plivo.com/voice/">Plivo's Voice API</a> gives you complete control over your IVR system, enabling you to create a great customer experience while managing costs. With service in over 220 countries and territories and a 99.99% uptime guarantee, Plivo is a reliable choice for your IVR needs.</p><p>Here are some of its advantages:</p><ul><li><strong>Easy to use:</strong> Plivo's APIs and XML make it simple to build and manage your own custom IVR menus, even for complex interactions, without needing advanced technical knowledge.</li><li><strong>Flexibility:</strong> Customers can navigate your IVR using voice or keypad (DTMF), ensuring convenience for all.</li><li><strong>Outbound IVR:</strong> You can use Plivo's IVR for outbound calls, like for surveys, reminders, or voting.</li><li><strong>Scalability: </strong>Plivo is designed to handle large call volumes, so your IVR can grow with your business without any problems.</li><li><strong>Security: </strong>Plivo takes data security seriously by complying with industry standards like PCI DSS, GDPR, and HIPAA to keep your customer information safe.</li></ul><p>On top of that, Plivo integrates <a href="https://www.plivo.com/voice/automatic-speech-recognition/">automatic speech recognition</a> (ASR), so your IVR system can understand and respond to customer inputs — whether they prefer to talk or use their keypad.&nbsp;</p><p>Plivo also includes Answer Machine Detection (AMD), which uses heuristic algorithms to identify voicemail with high accuracy.&nbsp; Rather than relying solely on a beep, Plivo analyzes factors like tone of voice and speech speed, ensuring reliable voicemail detection in just three to five seconds.&nbsp;</p><p>Ready to create a customer-centric IVR experience? <a href="https://console.plivo.com/accounts/request-trial/">Contact us</a> today to learn how <a href="https://www.plivo.com/">Plivo</a> can help you build an IVR system that improves customer service and streamlines your operations.</p>
