---
title: "Keeping Your Data Safe: Our Ongoing Commitment to Security"
description: "Renewed SOC 2 Type 2 & PCI DSS compliance: Your data's safety is our unwavering commitment. Discover Plivo CX ongoing dedication to security."
pubDate: "2024-08-20T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2025-11-23T04:23:28.000Z"
image: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/67fe0a60773a4222879ab8ab_66c49580f9a48a36314a2f01_pbs-min.png"
thumbnail: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/67fe0a60773a4222879ab8ab_66c49580f9a48a36314a2f01_pbs-min.png"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: false
noindex: false
categories: ["security"]
seoTitle: "Keeping Your Data Safe: Our Ongoing Commitment to Security | Plivo Blog"
webflowItemId: "67fe0a61773a4222879ab9db"
---
<p><a href="https://www.plivo.com/cx/security/">Security</a> is on everyone’s mind, and at PlivoCX, protecting your information is our highest priority. We want to earn your trust when it comes to keeping your data safe. As part of that commitment, we are pleased to announce that we’ve renewed our SOC 2 Type 2 certification, which incorporates controls relevant to HIPAA compliance.</p><p>‍</p><h2>Validating Our Security Practices</h2><h3>SOC 2 Type 2 Certification</h3><p>Our all-in-one CX suite simplifies marketing, automates customer service, and fuels growth — all while maintaining stringent security controls on sensitive customer information. This year, we renewed our SOC 2 Type 2 certification. The SOC 2 criteria validates our security processes to meet strict industry standards over time. Specific areas covered include:</p><ul><li>Regular communication of changes to customers</li><li>Robust internal access control to production environments</li><li>Thorough system monitoring and ongoing risk assessments</li><li>Reliable disaster recovery, data backup measures, and system availability</li><li>Responsive system and security monitoring and incident response processes</li><li>Effective employee onboarding and termination processes</li></ul><p>Plivo’s controls will continue to evolve to maintain the privacy and security of customer data and perfect our security systems.</p><h3>HIPAA Compliance: A Shared Responsibility</h3><p>For our healthcare clients, we provide HIPAA business associate agreements (BAA) to safeguard sensitive patient information in accordance with healthcare regulations. While our SOC 2 report encompasses controls pertinent to HIPAA, achieving full compliance is a shared responsibility, necessitating both CX Suite and our clients to diligently uphold their respective roles.</p><p>‍</p><h2>Security as an Ongoing Effort</h2><p>While compliance certifications are essential, we don’t see security as just a box to check. Our team is dedicated to continuously strengthening protections through more advanced systems, employee training, and industry best practices. We’ll keep you updated on our progress.</p><p>We’re proud of our team’s hard work over the past year, and we’ll continue striving to implement robust security measures and achieve accreditations.</p><p>Read more about our renewed SOC 2 Type 2 compliance, our security measures, and how we're continually protecting your data on our <a href="https://www.plivo.com/cx/security/">security page</a>.</p><p>Your security is always our top priority. We appreciate your trust in us.</p>
