---
title: "Maintaining Our Commitment to Security: Plivo Renews SOC 2 Type 2 Compliance"
description: "SOC 2 Type 2 Compliance Renewal in Ensuring Data Security & Trust: Plivo complies with stringent standards to safeguard your information. Read to know more."
pubDate: "2024-08-16T00:00:00.000Z"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
draft: false
featured: false
noindex: false
categories: ["compliance","company","security"]
updatedDate: "2024-08-20T00:00:00.000Z"
image: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/657d370767546782a30c3ad4_soc2-renewal.svg"
thumbnail: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/657d370767546782a30c3ad4_soc2-renewal.svg"
seoTitle: "Maintaining Our Commitment to Security: Plivo Renews SOC 2 Type 2 Compliance"
---
<p>At Plivo, we're dedicated to offering a trustworthy, robust Cloud Communication Platform as a Service (CPaaS). We continuously implement stringent security measures; and, as a result, we’re pleased to share that we’ve renewed our SOC 2 Type 2 certification, which includes <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://www.plivo.com/blog/hipaa-compliant/">HIPAA</a> controls.</p><h2>Maintaining a Strong Security Culture</h2><p>Security is at the core of our operations and deeply integrated into our services. Our security team continuously enhances our security controls, threat mitigation processes, and monitoring systems. Every Plivo employee understands that safeguarding your data is our highest priority; we've built our culture around this value.</p><h2>Our SOC 2 Type 2 Commitment</h2><p>In 2022, we <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://www.plivo.com/blog/plivo-soc-2-compliance/">obtained our initial SOC 2 Type 2 report</a>, demonstrating our capabilities in handling, storing, and processing user data. The report not only validated the strength of our security systems and procedures but also evaluated our operational effectiveness in adhering to these controls over time.&nbsp;</p><p>Our SOC 2 Type 2 certification renewal this year reaffirms our dedication to managing our clients’ critical data. It verifies our stringent controls across several critical areas:</p><ul><li><p><strong>Regular communication:</strong> We ensure consistent updates and changes are communicated to our customers.</p></li><li><p><strong>Access controls:</strong> We prevent unauthorized access by maintaining robust internal access controls to production environments.</p></li><li><p><strong>System monitoring:</strong> We conduct thorough system monitoring and ongoing risk assessments to identify and mitigate potential threats.</p></li><li><p><strong>Disaster recovery:</strong> Our reliable disaster recovery and data backup measures ensure system availability and data integrity.</p></li><li><p><strong>Incident response:</strong> We have a responsive system and security monitoring and incident response processes in place.</p></li><li><p><strong>Employee processes:</strong> Our effective employee onboarding and termination processes help maintain security integrity.</p></li></ul><p>These controls continue to evolve as we maintain the privacy and security of customer data and enhance our security systems.</p><h2>Our Security Commitment: Beyond a Checkbox</h2><p>Renewing our SOC 2 Type 2 certification is more than just meeting a requirement; it's a testament to our ongoing commitment to you, our valued customers. For us, it’s not just about compliance but about living up to the trust you place in Plivo every day.</p><p>We’re proud of our team’s hard work over the past year, and we will continue implementing robust security measures and achieving accreditations in the future.</p><p>You can read more about our renewed <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://www.surecloud.com/frameworks/soc-2-compliance">SOC 2 Type 2 compliance</a>, our security measures, and how we continually protect your data on <a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="https://www.plivo.com/security/">our security page</a>.</p><p>Your security is always our top priority. We deeply appreciate your trust in us.</p>
