---
title: "Transparent pay-as-you-go pricing puts Plivo on top"
description: "Pay-as-you-go pricing is a key Plivo advantage. Compare our pricing page and Twilio’s and see how much you can save."
pubDate: "2021-09-14T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2023-12-21T11:08:55.000Z"
image: "/images/blog/65810cd379f8f1f21b55da12_transparent-pay-as-you-go-pricing-puts-plivo-on-top.svg"
thumbnail: "/images/blog/65810cd379f8f1f21b55da12_transparent-pay-as-you-go-pricing-puts-plivo-on-top.svg"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: true
noindex: false
categories: ["pricing"]
seoTitle: "Transparent pay-as-you-go pricing puts Plivo on top"
webflowItemId: "65810d2e6a28387a23d5a369"
---
<p>One of the key advantages of cloud computing is the ability to pay for only the resources you use. It’s true of the hardware resources you save if you spin up cloud instances, and it’s true of SaaS software like Plivo.</p><p>Using the cloud for computing and storage resources is a huge win over buying hardware. Hardware is expensive. It’s not easy to scale up as your needs change. It requires administrators to install and maintain it. And often it sits underutilized, meaning you’re not getting the full value out of your precious capital expenditures.</p><p>The same advantages apply to cloud software. You don’t have to pay an annual license fee (though you may have to pay an annual or monthly subscription fee). You don’t have to install anything, so you need fewer sysadmin resources. Your software doesn’t get out of date — you’re always working with the most recent version. There’s no contract to sign. The SaaS provider handles everything from security to availability — all you have to do is hand over your credit card.</p><p>With Plivo, the benefit is even bigger, because Plivo is pure pay-as-you-go — simple usage-based pricing. Check out our <a href="https://www.plivo.com/pricing/" target="_blank">pricing</a> page. Every phone call you make or receive, every text message you send or receive costs the same amount, and we tell you what you’ll pay in black and white right on our website, so you can see what Plivo costs compared to what our competitors charge — if they’re as transparent about their pricing as we are. There are no hidden fees or surcharges — what you see is what you pay.</p><p>Or rather, we should say, what you see is <em>the most</em> you’ll pay. If you commit to using Plivo for a certain level of voice and messaging traffic every month, we’ll give you a volume discount. You should <a href="https://www.plivo.com/contact/sales/" target="_blank">talk to our sales team</a> about how much of a discount you can enjoy for your individual use case.</p><p>To get you started, we have another great pricing scheme — free. <a href="https://console.plivo.com/accounts/register/" target="_blank">Sign up for Plivo</a> and we’ll give you free credits so you can see how easy it is to send messages and make voice calls with our APIs and our cloud communications platform. We have great <a href="https://www.plivo.com/docs/" target="_blank">getting started documentation</a> and free 24/7 support. The sooner you try us out, the sooner you can start saving.<br></p><p></p>
