---
title: "Maintaining Our Commitment to Security: Plivo Renews SOC 2 Type 2 Compliance"
description: "SOC 2 Type 2 Compliance Renewal in Ensuring Data Security & Trust: Plivo complies with stringent standards to safeguard your information. Read to know more."
pubDate: "2023-08-03T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2025-11-23T04:22:22.000Z"
image: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/657d370767546782a30c3ad4_soc2-renewal.svg"
thumbnail: "https://cdn.prod.website-files.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/657d370767546782a30c3ad4_soc2-renewal.svg"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: true
noindex: false
categories: ["compliance", "company", "security"]
seoTitle: "Maintaining Our Commitment to Security: Plivo Renews SOC 2 Type 2 Compliance"
webflowItemId: "657d37baa0fbf5e81c58c6f3"
---
<p>At Plivo, we’re steadfast in our dedication to stringent security measures, to ensure we offer our clients a trustworthy and robust <a href="/guide/what-is-cpaas" target="_blank">Cloud Communication Platform as a Service (CPaaS)</a>. We’re pleased to share that we’ve renewed our SOC 2 Type 2 certification, which includes <a href="http://plivo-webflow.webflow.io/blog/hipaa-compliant">HIPAA</a> controls.</p><h2><strong>Maintaining a strong security culture</strong></h2><p>The focus on <a href="https://plivo-webflow.webflow.io/privacy-and-security">security</a> is at the heart of our operations, woven into the fabric of our services. Our security team continually improves our security controls, threat-mitigation processes, and monitoring systems. Everyone at Plivo knows that keeping your data safe is our highest priority; we’ve built our culture around that value.</p><h2><strong>Our SOC 2 Type 2 commitment</strong></h2><p>In 2022 we <a href="http://plivo-webflow.webflow.io/blog/plivo-soc-2-compliance">obtained our initial SOC 2 Type 2 report</a>, which provided reassurance to our customers about us as a service organization handling, storing, and processing user data. The report not only confirmed the adequacy of our security systems and procedures, it also examined our operational effectiveness in adhering to these controls over time. The SOC 2 Type 2 certification underscored our commitment to data security.</p><p>Our SOC 2 Type 2 certification this year reaffirms our dedication to managing the critical data our clients entrust us with, and reaffirms our stringent controls across critical areas:</p><ul><li>Regular communication of changes to customers</li><li>Robust internal access control to production environments</li><li>Thorough system monitoring and ongoing risk assessments</li><li>Reliable disaster recovery, data backup measures, and system availability</li><li>Responsive system and security monitoring and incident response processes</li><li>Effective employee onboarding and termination processes</li></ul><p>These controls continue to evolve as we maintain the privacy and security of customer data and perfect our security systems.</p><h2><strong>Our security commitment: beyond a checkbox</strong></h2><p>We see our certification renewal as a testament to our ongoing commitment to you, our valued customers. It signifies our dedication to ensuring your data’s security and our unwavering efforts to keep improving. It isn’t just about ticking a box for us, but rather about living up to the trust you place in us.</p><p>We’re proud of our team’s hard work over the past year, and we’ll continue striving toward more robust security measures and accreditations in the future.</p><p>You can read more about our renewed SOC 2 Type 2 compliance, our security measures, and how we’re continually protecting your data on <a href="https://www.plivo.com/security/">our security page</a>.</p><p>Your security is always our top priority. We appreciate your trust in us.</p>
