---
title: "Plivo Named to 2023 Inc. 5000 List of America’s Fastest-Growing Private Companies"
description: "Plivo secures its spot on the prestigious 2023 Inc. 5000 list of America's Fastest-Growing Private Companies."
pubDate: "2023-08-18T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2024-07-17T03:49:12.000Z"
image: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/657c549572e7050a07bbd7f0_blog_inc5000_2023.svg"
thumbnail: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/657c549572e7050a07bbd7f0_blog_inc5000_2023.svg"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: true
noindex: false
categories: ["company"]
seoTitle: "Plivo Named to 2023 Inc. 5000 List of America’s Fastest-Growing Private Companies"
webflowItemId: "657c5517a85a93b0294f7095"
---
<p><strong>Austin, TX — August 18, 2023</strong> Inc. has included <a href="https://www.plivo.com/">Plivo</a> in the 2023 Inc. 5000, the magazine’s annual list of the fastest-growing private companies in America. The prestigious ranking provides a data-driven look at the most successful companies within the economy’s most dynamic segment — its independent, entrepreneurial businesses.</p><p>“As Plivo enters its twelfth year, we’re thrilled to join such an amazing group of companies,” said <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/bevenky">Venky Balasubramanian</a>, co-founder and CEO at Plivo. “Plivo started in 2011 as an open source project on GitHub with a mission to simplify customer engagement. We’ve gone from acceptance into Y Combinator’s 2012 batch, to becoming profitable in 2016, to launching SaaS solutions for customer service and sales teams in 2022. The Inc. 5000 honor is another exciting milestone on our journey.”</p><p>“Running a business has only gotten harder since the end of the pandemic,” says Inc. editor-in-chief Scott Omelianuk. “To make the Inc. 5000 — with the fast growth that requires — is truly an accomplishment. Inc. is thrilled to honor the companies that are building our future.”</p><p><strong>About Plivo</strong></p><p>Plivo is a customer engagement platform that enables businesses to connect, engage and interact with their customers in over 190 countries. Thousands of businesses like IBM, Workday, Nutanix, and Gojek rely on Plivo to deliver better customer experiences globally.</p><h2>More about Inc. and the Inc. 5000</h2><p><strong>Methodology</strong></p><p>Companies on the 2023 Inc. 5000 are ranked according to percentage revenue growth from 2019 to 2022. To qualify, companies must have been founded and generating revenue by March 31, 2019. They must be U.S.-based, privately held, for-profit, and independent—not subsidiaries or divisions of other companies—as of December 31, 2022. (Since then, some on the list may have gone public or been acquired.) The minimum revenue required for 2019 is $100,000; the minimum for 2022 is $2 million. As always, Inc. reserves the right to decline applicants for subjective reasons. Growth rates used to determine company rankings were calculated to four decimal places.</p><p><strong>About Inc.</strong></p><p>Inc. Business Media is the leading multimedia brand for entrepreneurs. Through its journalism, Inc. aims to inform, educate, and elevate the profile of our community: the risk-takers, the innovators, and the ultra-driven go-getters who are creating our future. Inc.’s award-winning work reaches more than 50 million people across a variety of channels, including events, print, digital, video, podcasts, newsletters, and social media. Its proprietary Inc. 5000 list, produced every year since 1982, analyzes company data to rank the fastest-growing privately held businesses in the United States. The recognition that comes with inclusion on this and other prestigious Inc. lists, such as Female Founders and Power Partners, gives the founders of top businesses the opportunity to engage with an exclusive community of their peers, and credibility that helps them drive sales and recruit talent. For more information, visit www.inc.com.<br></p>
