---
title: "Announcing Secure Trunking on Outbound Trunks"
description: "Secure SIP trunking enables outbound trunks to use TLS to encrypt signaling and SRTP to encrypt media during the time a call is traveling through the public internet."
pubDate: "2020-12-06T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2023-12-21T12:14:46.000Z"
image: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/65825d503553da315014c841_robust-authentication-and-encryption-to-protect-your-business-from-cyber-attacks.svg"
thumbnail: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/656ac26f3a3f6e1cc08ba7a5/65825d503553da315014c841_robust-authentication-and-encryption-to-protect-your-business-from-cyber-attacks.svg"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: true
noindex: false
categories: ["zentrunk", "sip-trunking"]
seoTitle: "Announcing Secure Trunking on Outbound Trunks"
webflowItemId: "65825dc56ac8137761bdb253"
---
<p>Plivo now supports secure trunking for <a href="https://www.plivo.com/sip-trunking/" target="_blank">Zentrunk’s</a> outbound trunks. SIP security has become a major priority for businesses — networks often hold classified information, and if a hacker gains access to it while it’s in use, the damage can be severe. </p><p>With this new functionality, Plivo customers can use Transport Layer Security (TLS) to encrypt signaling and Secure Real-time Transport Protocol (SRTP) to encrypt media during the time a call is traveling through the public internet. </p><h3>How it works</h3><p>Secure trunking operates almost entirely the same as any SIP trunk. The only difference is a short exchange at the beginning of a call to negotiate a security cipher suite and key to encrypt the call. Once the call is on the internal side of the Plivo network, encryption is no longer used.</p><p>Two types of data packets are involved in a successful SIP call over the internet — signaling and media. Encryption of signaling happens over the TLS protocol, and ensures authentication between two transport endpoints over an unsecured path for the SIP messages. Think of this as validating that the packets are from the correct source (either the customer or Plivo), and that they haven’t been altered during transmission. We support TLS versions 1.2 and 1.3. SRTP is used when securing RTP packets, which ensures that the media packets and actual contents of the call remain private and secure during the transmission. This kind of end-to-end encryption allows businesses with strict information security practices to reap the benefits of both SIP trunks and cloud communications. </p><p>To learn more about our implementation and how to configure your VoIP infrastructure with secure trunking, check out our <a href="https://www.plivo.com/docs/sip-trunking/#secure-trunking-on-outbound-trunks" target="_blank">documentation</a>. </p><p>With a redundant infrastructure across multiple geographies and at least three local carrier connections across countries, Plivo offers a secure SIP trunking solution with robust authentication and encryption. You can rest assured that the communication lines in your company are safe from data attacks.</p><p>Haven’t tried Plivo yet? Getting started takes only five minutes. <a href="https://console.plivo.com/accounts/register/" target="_blank">Sign up</a> today.<br></p><p></p>
