---
title: "Plivo Wins 2023 Stevie Award"
description: "Plivo Wins 2023 Stevie Award in the Platform as a Service Category | Plivo"
pubDate: "2023-05-02T00:00:00.000Z"
updatedDate: "2023-12-21T09:56:30.000Z"
image: "/images/blog/657d5b0eb8e1715fecb1af47_2023_Awards.svg"
thumbnail: "/images/blog/657d5b0eb8e1715fecb1af47_2023_Awards.svg"
authorName: "Team Plivo"
featured: true
noindex: false
categories: ["company"]
seoTitle: "Plivo Wins 2023 Stevie Award in the Platform as a Service Category | Plivo"
webflowItemId: "657d5b70eac136d96d09a523"
---
<p>Plivo has won a Bronze Stevie Award in the Platform as a Service category.</p><p>For those not familiar with them, the Stevie Awards were created in 2002 “to honor and generate public recognition of the achievements and positive contributions of organizations and working professionals worldwide.” The American Business Awards, the type of Stevie that Plivo won, are open to US organizations and feature a variety of categories, including startup of the year, executive of the year, and best new product or service of the year. This year the Stevies received more than 3,700 nominations for the awards.</p><p>What made Plivo stand out from the pack? Stevie judges cited improvements over the last year in Plivo’s 10DLC features. 10DLC numbers, as you know if you send text messages in the US, are standard US local phone numbers that carriers approve for application-to-person (A2P) text messaging. To use them, organizations must register their brands, declare their use cases, and link phone numbers. This registration process lets carriers know who’s sending what kinds of messages and ultimately protects message recipients from unwanted spam texts.</p><h2>Continuous improvement for the win</h2><p>A year ago, to register for 10DLC, Plivo customers had to provide our support team with relevant information and wait for results. Since then, Plivo has added 10DLC registration features to the console, allowing customers to register their companies (brands) and use cases (campaigns) themselves and link their long code numbers to campaigns. Through the console they can also get transparency into the 10DLC process; they can</p><ul><li>View 10DLC registration status of a number</li><li>Check what campaign is associated with a number </li><li>See what throughput is allocated for a number by carrier</li></ul><p>In addition, Plivo created a 10DLC API that lets reseller customers automate registration for multiple 10DLC brands and campaigns.</p><h2>What the judges said</h2><p>Stevie judges were impressed with the simplicity of the console interface — “impressed with the enhancements to automate workflows and the details on 10DLC,” were one judge’s exact words. “Customer experience is indeed the key.”</p><p>Another judge commented, “Easy to use and cost-effective service with great customer support and comprehensive documentation.”</p><p>And a third said simply, “This is a great connectivity product for enterprises.”</p><p>We appreciate the kind words. We think we’ve earned them. If you’re a Plivo customer and you agree, please share that with the Stevie Award team and help us earn their <a href="https://peopleschoice.stevieawards.com/" target="_blank">People’s Choice Award for Favorite New Product</a>. At the top of the form enter the short code <strong>I706L</strong> or click on Platform as a Service and then tap us.<br></p><p></p>
